---
layout: post
title:      "Why Software Engineering?"
date:       2019-11-04 17:15:38 -0500
permalink:  why_software_engineering
---


My story starts in 2010 at the age of 18, I had dropped out of high school and was homeless along with my older brother. Fast Forward to late 2011 I had gotten a job working at Mcdonalds. Where I met my future wife I moved in with her that same year and realized that the prospects I had job-wise would not lead to the lifestyle that I imagined for my wife, stepdaughter and myself. So I hastily got myself into an alternative school that allows individuals to obtain a high school diploma up until the age of 21. As I was going through the remaining highschool credits I needed I applied and planned to join the United States Army right after graduation. After meeting all of the requirements needed to graduate I finally graduated in May of 2012 only 2 months later in July I shipped out for basic training. Fast forward to 2016 after 4 1/2yrs of service I decided that It was time to move on. Although I did not have the clearest idea of what I wanted to do I did know that I needed to bolster my education. I decided at first that I was going to go to university for Business Management. I started my school journey going to a campus setting but after a few semesters realized that the act of physically going to university was wasting my time. So I switch to an online university where I change my major as well instead opting to go for Management of Information Systems and Analytics. Because of the flexibility gained by going to online school, I was also able to go to work as well after a little hunting I got a job as an IT Admin, for an engineering firm. After completing my degree in early 2019 I started to apply for multiple jobs over many months but began to realize that even with a bachelor's degree and a year and a half of experience no one was willing to give me a chance in the field of my degree. Bummed out and wondering how I could elevate myself I stumbled across Flatiron School. So why did I choose Software Engineering? The short answer is because It is a very interesting set of skills that have loads of practical application why not learn Software Engineering. However, this explanation is vague and does not do my aspirations justice. I want to learn Software Engineering so I can start a business that leverages the Analytical and Database skills I learned in college with the software coding and website design skills learned with Flatiron, to provide top of the line customer service and technology products to individuals and small to large businesses. The combination of creativity given through software engineering and cold hard data given through statistical analysis and data mining, to create applications that will improve functionality for large sums of people really amps me up to learn as much as I can and actively improve myself so I can in the near future deploy these applications to customers. 

